# Hotel Hospitality Analysis

## Table of Contents

## Case Study
Lorem Ipsum Group owns multiple five-star hotels across Egypt. They have been in the hospitality industry for the past 20 years. Due to strategic moves from other competitors and ineffective decision-making in management, Lorem Ipsum Group are losing its market share and revenue in the luxury/business hotels category. As a strategic move, the managing director of Lorem Ipsum wanted to incorporate “Business and Data Intelligence” in order to regain their market share and revenue. However, they do not have an in-house data analytics team to provide them with these insights.
Their revenue management team had decided to hire a 3rd party service provider to provide them insights from their historical data.


## Data Sources
The primary dataset used for this analysis is the "fact_bookings.csv" file containing detailed information about each booking made by the cusomers

**Dataset Files:**
1. dim_date File
   - <ins>date</ins>: This column represents the dates present in May, June and July.
   - <ins>mmm yy</ins>: This column represents the date in the format of mmm yy.
2. dim_hotels File
   - <ins>property_id</ins>: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
   - <ins>property_name</ins>: This column represents the name of each hotel.
   - <ins>category</ins>: This column determines which class[Luxury, Business] a particular hotel/property belongs to.
   - <ins>city</ins>: This column represents where the particular hotel/property resides in.
3. dim_rooms File
   - <ins>room_id</ins>: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
   - <ins>room_class</ins>: This column represents to which class[Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential] particular room type belongs.

4. fact_aggregated_bookings File
   - <ins>property_id</ins>: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
   - <ins>check_in_date</ins>: This column represents all the check_in_dates of the customers.
   - <ins>room_category</ins>: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
   - <ins>successful_bookings</ins>: This column represents all the successful room bookings that happen for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
   - <ins>capacity</ins>: This column represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
5. fact_bookings File
   - <ins>booking_id</ins>: This column represents the Unique Booking ID for each customer when they booked their rooms.
   - <ins>property_id</ins>: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels
   - <ins>booking_date</ins>: This column represents the date on which the customer booked their rooms.
   - <ins>check_in_date</ins>: This column represents the date on which the customer check-in(entered) at the hotel.
   - <ins>check_out_date</ins>: This column represents the date on which the customer check-out(left) of the hotel.
   - <ins>no_guests</ins>: This column represents the number of guests who stayed in a particular room in that hotel.
   - <ins>room_category</ins>: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
   - <ins>booking_platform</ins>: This column represents in which way the customer booked his room.
   - <ins>ratings_given</ins>: This column represents the ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
   - <ins>booking_status</ins>: This column represents whether the customer cancelled his booking[Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel[Checked Out] or booked his room but not stayed in the hotel[No show].
   - <ins>revenue_generated</ins>: This column represents the amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
revenue_realized</ins>: This column represents the final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is cancelled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then full revenue generated will goes to hotels.







